
=== PAGE 1 ===
Technical Report
PIXART-δ: FAST AND CONTROLLABLE IMAGE
GENERATION WITH LATENT CONSISTENCY MODELS
Junsong Chen1,2,4
, Yue Wu1
, Simian Luo3
, Enze Xie1†
,
Sayak Paul5
, Ping Luo4
, Hang Zhao3
, Zhenguo Li1
1Huawei Noah’s Ark Lab 2Dalian University of Technology
3
IIIS, Tsinghua University 4The University of Hong Kong 5Hugging Face
jschen@mail.dlut.edu.cn, luosm22@mails.tsinghua.edu.cn,
{wuyue119,xie.enze,Li.Zhenguo}@huawei.com
Homepage: https://pixart-alpha.github.io/
Code: https://github.com/PixArt-alpha/PixArt-alpha
Demo: https://huggingface.co/spaces/PixArt-alpha/PixArt-LCM
ABSTRACT
This technical report introduces PIXART-δ, a text-to-image synthesis framework
that integrates the Latent Consistency Model (LCM) and ControlNet into the ad￾vanced PIXART-α model. PIXART-α is recognized for its ability to generate high￾quality images of 1024px resolution through a remarkably efficient training pro￾cess. The integration of LCM in PIXART-δ significantly accelerates the inference
speed, enabling the production of high-quality images in just 2-4 steps. Notably,
PIXART-δ achieves a breakthrough 0.5 seconds for generating 1024 × 1024 pixel
images, marking a 7× improvement over the PIXART-α. Additionally, PIXART-δ
is designed to be efficiently trainable on 32GB V100 GPUs within a single day.
With its 8-bit inference capability (von Platen et al., 2023), PIXART-δ can synthe￾size 1024px images within 8GB GPU memory constraints, greatly enhancing its
usability and accessibility. Furthermore, incorporating a ControlNet-like module
enables fine-grained control over text-to-image diffusion models. We introduce a
novel ControlNet-Transformer architecture, specifically tailored for Transformers,
achieving explicit controllability alongside high-quality image generation. As a
state-of-the-art, open-source image generation model, PIXART-δ offers a promis￾ing alternative to the Stable Diffusion family of models, contributing significantly
to text-to-image synthesis.
1 INTRODUCTION
In this technical report, we propose PIXART-δ, which incorporates LCM (Luo et al., 2023a) and
ControlNet (Zhang et al., 2023) into PIXART-α (Chen et al., 2023). Notably, PIXART-α is an
advanced high-quality 1024px diffusion transformer text-to-image synthesis model, developed by
our team, known for its superior image generation quality achieved through an exceptionally efficient
training process.
We incorporate LCM into the PIXART-δ to accelerate the inference. LCM (Luo et al., 2023a)
enables high-quality and fast inference with only 2∼4 steps on pre-trained LDMs by viewing the
reverse diffusion process as solving an augmented probability flow ODE (PF-ODE), which enables
PIXART-δ to generate samples within (∼4) steps while preserving high-quality generations. As
a result, PIXART-δ takes 0.5 seconds per 1024 × 1024 image on an A100 GPU, improving the
inference speed by 7× compared to PIXART-α. We also support LCM-LoRA (Luo et al., 2023b)
for a better user experience and convenience.
† Project lead.
1
arXiv:2401.05252v1 [cs.CV] 10 Jan 2024
=== PAGE 2 ===
Technical Report
In addition, we incorporate a ControlNet-like module into the PIXART-δ. ControlNet (Zhang et al.,
2023) demonstrates superior control over text-to-image diffusion models’ outputs under various
conditions. However, it’s important to note that the model architecture of ControlNet is intricately
designed for UNet-based diffusion models, and we observe that a direct replication of it into a
Transformer model proves less effective. Consequently, we propose a novel ControlNet-Transformer
architecture customized for the Transformer model. Our ControlNet-Transformer achieves explicit
controllability and obtains high-quality image generation.
2 BACKGROUND
2.1 CONSISTENCY MODEL
Consistency Model (CM) and Latent Consistency Model (LCM) have made significant advance￾ments in the field of generative model acceleration. CM, introduced by Song et al. (2023) has
demonstrated its potential to enable faster sampling while maintaining the quality of generated im￾ages on ImageNet dataset (Deng et al., 2009). A key ingredient of CM is trying to maintain the
self-consistency property during training (consistency mapping technique), which allows for the
mapping of any data point on a Probability Flow Ordinary Differential Equation (PF-ODE) trajec￾tory back to its origin.
LCM, proposed by Luo et al. (2023a), extends the success of CM to the current most challenging
and popular LDMs, Stable Diffusion (Rombach et al., 2022) and SD-XL (Podell et al., 2023) on
Text-to-Image generative task. LCM accelerates the reverse sampling process by directly predicting
the solution of the augmented PF-ODE in latent space. LCM combines several effective techniques
(e.g, One-stage guided distillation, Skipping-step technique) to achieve remarkable rapid inference
speed on Stable Diffusion models and fast training convergence. LCM-LoRA (Luo et al., 2023b),
training LCM with the LoRA method (Hu et al., 2021), demonstrates strong generalization, estab￾lishing it as a universal Stable Diffusion acceleration module. In summary, CM and LCM have
revolutionized generative modeling by introducing faster sampling techniques while preserving the
quality of generated outputs, paving the way for real-time generation applications.
2.2 CONTROLNET
ControlNet (Zhang et al., 2023) demonstrates superior control over text-to-image diffusion mod￾els’ outputs under various conditions (e.g., canny edge, open-pose, sketch). It introduces a special
structure, a trainable copy of UNet, that allows for the manipulation of input conditions, enabling
control over the overall layout of the generated image. During training, ControlNet freezes the ori￾gin text-to-image diffusion model and only optimizes the trainable copy. It integrates the outputs of
each layer of this copy by skip-connections into the original UNet using “zero convolution” layers
to avoid harmful noise interference.
This innovative approach effectively prevents overfitting while preserving the quality of the pre￾trained UNet models, initially trained on an extensive dataset comprising billions of images. Con￾trolNet opens up possibilities for a wide range of conditioning controls, such as edges, depth, seg￾mentation, and human pose, and facilitates many applications in controlling image diffusion models.
3 LCM IN PIXART-δ
In this section, we employ Latent Consistency Distillation (LCD) (Luo et al., 2023a) to train
PIXART-δ on 120K internal image-text pairs. In Sec. 3.1, we first provide a detailed training al￾gorithm and ablation study on specific modifications. In Sec. 3.2, we illustrate the training effi￾ciency and the speedup of LCM of PIXART-δ. Lastly, in Sec. 3.3, we present the training details of
PIXART-δ.
3.1 ALGORITHM AND MODIFICATION
LCD Algorithm. Deriving from the original Consistency Distillation (CD) (Song et al., 2023)
and LCD (Luo et al., 2023a) algorithm, we present the pseudo-code for PIXART-δ with classifier￾2
=== PAGE 3 ===
Technical Report
free guidance (CFG) in Algorithm 1. Specifically, as illustrated in the training pipeline shown in
Fig. 1, three models – Teacher, Student, and EMA Model – function as denoisers for the ODE solver
Ψ(·, ·, ·, ·), fθ, and fθ− , respectively. During the training process, we begin by sampling noise at
timestep tn+k, where the Teacher Model is used for denoising to obtain zˆTt0
. We then utilize a ODE
solver Ψ(·, ·, ·, ·) to calculate zˆ
Ψ,ω
tn
from ztn+k
and zˆTt0
. EMA Model is then applied for further
denoising, resulting in zˆEt0
. In parallel, the Student Model denoises the sample ztn+k
at tn+k to
derive zˆSt0
. The final step involves minimizing the distance between zˆSt0
and zˆEt0
, also known as
optimizing the consistency distillation objective.
Different from the original LCM, which selects variable guidance scale ω from a designated range
[ωmin, ωmax], in our implementation, we set the guidance scale as a constant ωf ix, removing the
guidance scale embedding operation in LCM (Luo et al., 2023a) for convenience.
Algorithm 1 PixArt - Latent Consistency Distillation (LCD)
Input: dataset D, initial model parameter θ, learning rate η, ODE solver Ψ(·, ·, ·, ·), distance metric d(·, ·),
EMA rate µ, noise schedule α(t), σ(t), guidance scale ωf ix, skipping interval k, and encoder E(·)
Encoding training data into latent space: Dz = {(z, c)|z = E(x),(x, c) ∈ D}
θ
− ← θ
repeat
Sample (z, c) ∼ Dz, n ∼ U[1, N − k]
Sample ztn+k ∼ N (α(tn+k)z; σ
2
(tn+k)I)
zˆ
Ψ,ωf ix
tn ← ztn+k + (1 + ωf ix)Ψ(ztn+k
, tn+k, tn, c) − ωf ixΨ(ztn+k
, tn+k, tn, ∅)
L(θ, θ
−; Ψ) ← d(fθ(ztn+k
, ωf ix, c, tn+k), fθ− (zˆ
Ψ,ωf ix
tn
, ωf ix, c, tn))
θ ← θ − η∇θL(θ, θ
−)
θ
− ← stopgrad(µθ
− + (1 − µ)θ)
until convergence
𝑧!!"#
ODE Trajectory
𝑧!!
𝑧!$
Data Noise
Loss
EMA
Model
Teacher
Model
Teacher
Model
+Text
+∅
Student
Model
(1+ 𝝎𝒇𝒊𝒙) ×
𝝎𝒇𝒊𝒙 ×
Share -
EMA Update
𝑧̂
!$%
𝑧̂
"$%
𝑧#̂$%
1
4
2
4
2
1
Noise Denoise ODE-Solver: 𝜳
3
3 ODE-Solver: 𝜳
Figure 1: Training pipeline of PIXART-δ. The upper section of the diagram offers a high-level
overview of the training process, depicting the sequential stages of noise sampling and denoising
along a specific ODE trajectory. Sequence numbers are marked on the mapping lines to clearly
indicate the order of these steps. The lower section delves into the intricate roles of the pre-trained
(teacher) model and the student model, revealing their respective functions within the upper block’s
training process, with corresponding sequence numbers also marked for easy cross-referencing.
Effect of Hyper-parameters. Our study complements two key aspects of the LCM training process,
CFG scale and batch size. These factors are evaluated using FID and CLIP scores as performance
benchmarks. The terms ‘bs’, ‘ω f ix’, and ‘ω Embed’ in the Fig. 2 represent training batch size,
fixed guidance scale, and embedded guidance scale, respectively.
3
=== PAGE 4 ===
Technical Report
• CFG Scale Analysis: Referencing Fig. 2, we examine three distinct CFG scales: (1) 3.5,
utilized in our ablation study; (2) 4.5, which yieldes optimal results in PIXART-α; and (3) a
varied range of CFG scale embeddings (ω Embed), the standard approach in LCM. Our
research reveals that employing a constant guidance scale, instead of the more complex
CFG embeddings improves performance in PIXART-δ and simplifies the implementation.
• Batch Size Examination: The impact of batch size on model performance is assessed
using two configurations: 2 V100 GPUs and 32 V100 GPUs; each GPU loads 12 images.
As illustrated in Fig. 2, our results indicate that larger batch size positively influences FID
and CLIP scores. However, as shown in Fig. 8, PIXART-δ can also converge fast and get
comparable image quality with smaller batch sizes.
• Convergence: Finally, we observe that the training process tends to reach convergence
after approximately 5,000 iterations. Beyond this phase, further improvements are minimal.
(a) FID v.s. Iteration (b) CLIP score v.s. Iteration
Figure 2: Ablation study of FID and CLIP Score on various strategies for classifier-free guidance
scale (ω) and their impact on distillation convergence during training.
Noise Schedule Adjustment. Noise schedule is one of the most important parts of the diffusion
process. Following (Hoogeboom et al., 2023; Chen, 2023), we adapt the noise schedule function
in LCM to align with the PIXART-α noise schedule, which features a higher logSNR (signal-to￾noise ratio) during the distillation training. Fig. 3 visualizes the noise schedule functions under
different choices of PIXART-δ or LCM, along with their respective logSNR. Notably, PIXART-δ
can parameterize a broader range of noise distributions, a feature that has been shown further to
enhance image generation (Hoogeboom et al., 2023; Chen, 2023).
(a) Beta v.s. Time step (b) Noise schedule v.s. Time step (c) LogSNR v.s. Time step
Figure 3: Instantiations of βt, noise schedule function and the corresponding logSNR between
PIXART-δ and LCM. βt is the coefficient in the diffusion process zt =
√
α¯tz0 +
√
1 − α¯tϵ, αt =
1 − βt.
3.2 TRAINING EFFICIENCY AND INFERENCE SPEEDUP
For training, as illustrated in Tab. 1, we successfully conduct the distillation process within a 32GB
GPU memory constraint, all while retaining the same batch size and supporting image resolution
4
=== PAGE 5 ===
Technical Report
up to 1024 × 1024 with SDXL-LCM. Such training efficiency remarkably enables PIXART-δ to be
trained on a wide array of consumer-grade GPU specifications. In light of the discussions in Sec.3.1,
regarding the beneficial impact of larger batch size, our method notably makes it feasible to utilize
larger batch size even on GPUs with limited memory capacity.
For inference, as shown in Tab. 2 and Fig. 7, we present a comparative analysis of the generation
speed achieved by our model, PIXART-δ, against other methods like SDXL LCM-LoRA, PIXART￾α, and the SDXL standard across different hardware platforms. Consistently, PIXART-δ achieves
1024x1024 high resolution image generation within 0.5 seconds on an A100, and also completes
the process in a mere 3.3 seconds on a T4, 0.8 seconds on a V100, all with a batch size of 1. This
is a significant improvement over the other methods, where, for instance, the SDXL standard takes
up to 26.5 seconds on a T4 and 3.8 seconds on an A100. The efficiency of PIXART-δ is evident
as it maintains a consistent lead in generation speed with only 4 steps, compared to the 14 and 25
steps required by PIXART-α and SDXL standard, respectively. Notably, with the implementation
of 8-bit inference technology, PIXART-δ requires less than 8GB of GPU VRAM. This remarkable
efficiency enables PIXART-δ to operate on a wide range of GPU cards, and it even opens up the
possibility of running on a CPU.
Table 1: Illustration of the training setting between LCM on PIXART-δ and Stable Diffusion models.
(* stands for Stable Diffusion Dreamshaper-v7 finetuned version)
Methods PIXART-δ SDXL LCM-LoRA SD-V1.5-LCM*
Data Volume 120K 650K 650K
Resolution 1024px 1024px 768px
Batch Size 12 × 32 12 × 64 16 × 8
GPU Memory ∼32G ∼80G ∼80G
Table 2: Illustration of the generation speed we achieve on various devices. These tests are con￾ducted on 1024 × 1024 resolution with a batch size of 1 in all cases. Corresponding image samples
are shown in the Fig. 7
Hardware PIXART-δ SDXL LCM-LoRA PIXART-α SDXL standard
4 steps 4 steps 14 steps 25 steps
T4 3.3s 8.4s 16.0s 26.5s
V100 0.8s 1.2s 5.5s 7.7s
A100 0.5s 1.2s 2.2s 3.8s
3.3 TRAINING DETAILS
As discussed in Sec. 3.1, we conduct our experiments in two resolution settings, 512×512 and
1024×1024, utilizing a high-quality internal dataset with 120K images. We smoothly train the mod￾els in both resolutions by leveraging the multi-scale image generation capabilities of PIXART-α,
which supports 512px and 1024px resolutions. For both resolutions, PIXART-δ yields impressive
results before reaching 5K iterations, with only minimal improvements observed thereafter. The
training is executed on 2 V100 GPUs with a total batch size of 24, a learning rate of 2e-5, EMA
rate µ = 0.95, and using AdamW optimizer (Loshchilov & Hutter, 2017). We employ DDIM￾Solver (Song et al., 2023) and a skipping step k = 20 (Luo et al., 2023b) for efficiency. As noted
in Sec. 3.1 and illustrated in Fig. 3, modifications are made to the original LCM scheduler to ac￾commodate differences between the pre-trained PIXART-α and Stable Diffusion models. Following
the PIXART-α approach, we alter the βt in the diffusion process from a scaled linear to a linear
curve, adjusting βt0
from 0.00085 to 0.0001, and βtT
from 0.012 and to 0.02 at the same time. The
guidance scale ωf ix is set to 4.5, identified as optimal in PIXART-α. While omitting the Fourier em￾bedding of ω in LCM during training, both PIXART-α and PIXART-δ maintain identical structures
and trainable parameters. This allows us to initialize the consistency function fθ(zˆ, ωf ix, c, tn)
with the same parameters as the teacher diffusion model (PIXART-α) without compromising per￾formance. Building on the success of LCM-LoRA (Luo et al., 2023b), PIXART-δ can further easily
integrate LCM-LoRA, enhancing its adaptability for a more diverse range of applications.
5
=== PAGE 6 ===
Technical Report
Text
𝑇5
Time t
Base Block_1
Base 
Block_28
Base 
Block_14
Base 
Block_15
…
…
Base Block_1 
(trainable copy)
Base Block_14 
(trainable copy)
…
MLP zero linear
zero linear
Input
Condition
zero linear
+
Text&Time
Output
(a) PixArt-α
…
(b) ControlNet-UNet
Text
𝑇5
Time t
Base Block_1
Base 
Block_28
…
MLP
Input
Output
(a) PixArt-α
Base Block_2
+
Base Block_1 
(trainable copy)
Condition
zero linear
+
Text&Time
zero linear
Base Block_2 
(trainable copy)
Base 
Block_14
…
+ zero linear
…
…
Base Block_13 
(trainable copy)
(c) ControlNet-Transformer
Base 
Block_13
Tunable Parameters
Frozen Parameters
Figure 4: PIXART-δ integrated with ControlNet. (b): ControlNet-UNet. Base blocks are categorized
into “encoder” and “decoder” stages. The controlnet structure is applied to each encoder level of
PIXART-δ, and the output is connected to the decoder stage via skip-connections. (c): ControlNet￾Transformer. The ControlNet is applied to the first several blocks. The output of each block is added
to the output of the corresponding frozen block, serving as the input of the next frozen block.
4 CONTROLNET IN PIXART-δ
4.1 ARCHITECTURE
ControlNet, initially tailored for the UNet architecture, employed skip connections to enhance the
integration of control signals. The seamless incorporation of ControlNet into Transformer-based
models, exemplified by PIXART-δ, introduces a distinctive challenge. Unlike UNet, Transformers
lack explicit “encoder” and “decoder” blocks, making the conventional connection between these
components inappropriate.
In response to this challenge, we propose an innovative approach, ControlNet-Transformer, to ensure
the effective integration of ControlNet with Transformers, preserving ControlNet’s effectiveness in
managing control information and high-quality generation of PIXART-δ.
PIXART-δ contains 28 Transformer blocks. We replace the original zero-convolution in ControlNet
with a zero linear layer, that is, a linear layer with both weight and bias initialized to zero. We
explore the following network architectures:
• ControlNet-UNet (Zhang et al., 2023). To follow the original ControlNet design, we treat
the first 14 blocks as the “encoder” level of PIXART-δ, and the last 14 blocks as the “de￾coder” level of PIXART-δ. We use ControlNet to create a trainable copy of the 14 encoding
blocks. Subsequently, the outputs from these blocks are integrated by addition into the 14
skip-connections, which link to the last 14 decoder blocks. The network design is shown
in Fig. 4 (b).
It is crucial to note that this adaptation, referred to as ControlNet-UNet, encounters chal￾lenges due to the absence of explicit “encoder” and “decoder” stages and skip-connections
in the original Transformer design. This adaptation departs from the conventional archi￾tecture of the Transformer, which hampers the effectiveness and results in suboptimal out￾comes.
• ControlNet-Transformer. To address these challenges, we propose a novel and specifi￾cally tailored design for Transformers, illustrated in Fig. 4 (c). This innovative approach
aims to seamlessly integrate the ControlNet structure with the inherent characteristics of
6
=== PAGE 7 ===
Technical Report
Transformer architectures. To achieve this integration, we selectively apply the ControlNet
structure to the initial N base blocks. In this context, we generate N trainable copies of the
first N base blocks. The output of i
th trainable block is intricately connected to a zero linear
layer, and the resulting output is then added to the output of the corresponding i
th frozen
block. Subsequently, this combined output serves as the input for the subsequent (i + 1)th
frozen block. This design adheres to the original data flow of PixArt, and our observa￾tions underscore the significant enhancement in controllability and performance achieved
by ControlNet-Transformer. This approach represents a crucial step toward harnessing the
full potential of Transformer-based models in such applications. The ablation study of N
is described in Sec. 4.3, and we use N = 13 as the final model.
4.2 EXPERIMENT SETTINGS
We use a HED edge map in PIXART-δ as the condition and conduct an ablation study on 512px
generation, focusing on network architecture variations. Specifically, we conduct ablations on both
the ControlNet-UNet and ControlNet-Transformer. Other conditions, such as canny, will be a future
work. For ControlNet-Transformer, we ablate the number of copied blocks, including 1, 4, 7, 13,
and 27. We extract the HED on the internal data, and the gradient accumulation step is set as
4 following (Zhang et al., 2023)’s advice that recommendation that larger gradient accumulation
leads to improved results. The optimizer and learning rate are set as the same setting of PIXART￾δ. All the experiments are conducted on 16 V100 GPUs with 32GB. The batch size per GPU for
experiment ControlNet-Transformer (N = 27) is set as 2. For all other experiments, the batch size
is set as 12. Our training set consists of 3M HED and image pairs.
HED
ControlNet
-UNet
Copy Block=1 Copy Block=4 Copy Block=7 Copy Block=13 Copy Block=27
ControlNet-Transformer
Copy Block=14
oil painting of a beautiful woman, funny, kind, caring, nurturing, very motherly, sweet, understanding, compassionate, forgiving.
Close up of a happy average looking Finnish older person eyes closed in bright apartment living room with a laptop computer, 
filled with beautiful flowers, youthful vitality, flowers in the ceiling
the clown has a face covered in various metal elements, in the style of highly detailed illustrations, dark white and light gray, 
symmetrical chaos, airbrush art, traincore, carving, gothcore
Figure 5: The ablation study of ControlNet-UNet and ControlNet-Transformer. ControlNet￾Transformer yields much better results than ControlNet-UNet. The controllability of ControlNet￾Transformer increases as the number of copy blocks increases.
4.3 ABLATION STUDY
As shown in Fig. 5, ControlNet-Transformer generally outperforms, demonstrating faster con￾vergence and improved overall performance. This superiority can be attributed to the fact that
ControlNet-Transformer’s design aligns seamlessly with the inherent data flow of Transformer ar￾chitectures. Conversely, ControlNet-UNet introduces a conceptual information flow between the
7
=== PAGE 8 ===
Technical Report
non-existing “encoder” and “decoder” stages, deviating from the Transformer’s natural data pro￾cessing pattern.
In our ablation study concerning the number of copied blocks, we observe that for the majority
of scenarios, such as scenes and objects, satisfactory results can be achieved with merely N =
1. However, in challenging edge conditions, such as the outline edge of human faces and bodies,
performance tends to improve as N increases. Considering a balance between computational burden
and performance, we find that N = 13 is the optimal choice in our final design.
4.4 CONVERGENCE
As described in Fig. 12, we analyze the effect of training steps. The experiment is conducted on
ControlNet-Transformer (N = 13). From our observation, the convergence is very fast, with most
edges achieving satisfactory results at around 1,000 training steps. Moreover, we note a gradual im￾provement in results as the number of training steps increases, particularly noticeable in enhancing
the quality of outline edges for human faces and bodies. This observation underscores the efficiency
and effectiveness of ControlNet-Transformer.
We observe a similar “sudden converge” phenomenon in our model, as also observed in the original
ControlNet work, where it “suddenly” adapts to the training conditions. Empirical observations
indicate that this phenomenon typically occurs between 300 to 1,000 steps, with the convergence
steps being influenced by the difficulty level of the specified conditions. Simpler edges tend to
converge at earlier steps, while more challenging edges require additional steps for convergence.
After “sudden converge”, we observe an improvement in details as the number of steps increases.
Origin HED 100 steps 200 steps 300 steps 400 steps 500 steps 600 steps 700 steps 800 steps 900 steps
Figure 6: Example of “Sudden Converge” during PixArt-ControlNet training. We empirically ob￾serve it happens before 1000 iterations.
4.5 1024PX RESULTS
Building upon the powerful text-to-image generation framework of PixArt, our proposed PixArt￾ControlNet extends these capabilities to produce high-resolution images with a granular level of
control. This is vividly demonstrated in the detailed visualizations presented in Fig. 9 and Fig. 10.
Upon closer inspection of these figures, it is apparent that PixArt-ControlNet can exert precise con￾trol over the geometric composition of the resultant images, achieving fidelity down to individual
strands of hair.
5 CONCLUSION
In this report, we present PIXART-δ, a better text-to-image generation model integrating Latent Con￾sistency Models (LCM) to achieve 4-step sampling acceleration while maintaining high quality. We
also propose Transformer-based ControlNet, a specialized design tailored for Transformer architec￾ture, enabling precise control over generated images. Through extensive experiments, we demon￾strate PIXART-δ’s faster sampling and ControlNet-Transformer’s effectiveness in high-resolution
and controlled image generation. Our model can generate high-quality 1024px and fine-grained
controllable images in 1 second. PIXART-δ pushes the state-of-the-art in faster and more controlled
image generation, unlocking new capabilities for real-time applications.
Acknowledgement. We extend our sincere gratitude to Patrick von Platen and Suraj Patil from
Hugging Face for their invaluable support and contributions to this work.
8
=== PAGE 9 ===
Technical Report
PixArt-δ (4 step) SDXL-LCM (4 step)
PixArt-δ (4 step) PixArt-α (14 step)
cherrypick 
scientist
transparent 
duck made in 
glass is flying in 
the sky
An astronaut 
capybara 
floating 
gracefully beside 
a spaceship, 
with the Earth's 
blue glow in the 
background
Pixel Art of 
Leonardo da 
Vinci's Last 
Supper Painting, 
8 bit
Figure 7: Examples of generated outputs. In the top half, the comparison is between PIXART-δ and
SDXL-LCM, with 4 sampling steps. In the bottom half, the comparison involves PIXART-δ and
PIXART-α (teacher model, using DPM-Solver with 14 steps).
9
=== PAGE 10 ===
Technical Report
Iter 100
A photo of beautiful mountain with realistic sunset and blue lake, highly detailed, masterpiece
Astronaut in a jungle, cold color palette, muted colors, detailed, 8k
Iter 300 Iter 1000 Iter 2500 Iter 5000
portrait photo of a girl, photograph, highly detailed face, depth of field
Self-portrait oil painting, a beautiful cyborg with golden hair, 8k
dog
Figure 8: The 4-step inference samples generated by PIXART-δ demonstrate fast convergence in
LCD training on 2 V100 GPUs with a total batch size of 24. Remarkably, the complete fine￾tuning process requires less than 24GB of GPU memory, making it feasible on most contemporary
consumer-grade GPUs.
10
=== PAGE 11 ===
Technical Report
High detail PixArt-ControlNet (1024px)
Figure 9: High-resolution and fine-grained controllable image generation. The output is generated
with the prompt “the map of the final fantasy game’s main island, in the style of hirohiko araki,
raymond swanland, monumental murals, mosaics, naturalistic rendering, vorticism, use of earth
tones.”
11
=== PAGE 12 ===
Technical Report
High detail PixArt-ControlNet (1024px)
Figure 10: High-resolution and fine-grained controllable image generation. The output is generated
with the prompt “Multicultural beauty. Women of different ethnicity - Caucasian, African, Asian
and Indian.”
12
=== PAGE 13 ===
Technical Report
style Picasso, a boat on the river and some buildings 
Isometric clean pixel art image of a hidden luxury island painting of a port, colorful vehicles and buildings
drift game punk cyber style neon top view drifting car
colorful psychedelic mushrooms in a forest at night A palace entirely made of glass, anime style
Ancient girls, Look like about 20 years old
farm workers in the style of photorealistic detailing two towers mordor, terrifying, fantastic dark, foggy
A glossy beautiful young girl, diverse flowers on body
Figure 11: More examples of our PixArt-ControlNet generated images.
13
=== PAGE 14 ===
Technical Report
HED 1K steps 3K steps 8K steps 18K steps 35K steps
photo of 4 smiling happy modern wives in the foreground, 4 men in the background Pastel Art
Origin No prompt
With prompt
child africa, double exposure
young woman is sitting on the sunned floor, in the style of miwa komatsu, dark blue and dark black, translucent color, 
mamiya rb67, asaf hanuka, exotic, katsushika ōi
Antique rare Asian, sticker style white background
the garden of eden ih the bible, religious lithograph style
Asian-inspired, 1920s aesthetic, featuring a moon goddess sitting on a crescent moon. The moon goddess is portrayed 
with her dress and hair flowing gracefully in the breeze, giving a sense of ethereal beauty. She sits on the crescent 
moon, radiating a serene and captivating presence. etc.
surreal painting of a futuristic typewriter, sitting on a desk, abstract acrylic, light and shadow, minimal
Capture the idea of humans establishing colonies on other planets or moons, with spaceports and habitats dotting 
extraterrestrial landscapes.
Figure 12: The influence of training steps. The convergence is fast, with details progressively im￾proving and aligning more closely with the HED edge map as the training steps increase.
14
=== PAGE 15 ===
Technical Report
REFERENCES
Junsong Chen, Jincheng Yu, Chongjian Ge, Lewei Yao, Enze Xie, Yue Wu, Zhongdao Wang, James
Kwok, Ping Luo, Huchuan Lu, et al. Pixart-α: Fast training of diffusion transformer for photore￾alistic text-to-image synthesis. arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.00426, 2023.
Ting Chen. On the importance of noise scheduling for diffusion models. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2301.10972, 2023.
Jia Deng, Wei Dong, Richard Socher, Li-Jia Li, Kai Li, and Li Fei-Fei. Imagenet: A large-scale hi￾erarchical image database. In 2009 IEEE conference on computer vision and pattern recognition,
pp. 248–255. Ieee, 2009.
Emiel Hoogeboom, Jonathan Heek, and Tim Salimans. simple diffusion: End-to-end diffusion for
high resolution images. arXiv preprint arXiv:2301.11093, 2023.
Edward J Hu, Phillip Wallis, Zeyuan Allen-Zhu, Yuanzhi Li, Shean Wang, Lu Wang, Weizhu Chen,
et al. Lora: Low-rank adaptation of large language models. In ICLR, 2021.
Ilya Loshchilov and Frank Hutter. Decoupled weight decay regularization. In arXiv, 2017.
Simian Luo, Yiqin Tan, Longbo Huang, Jian Li, and Hang Zhao. Latent consistency models: Synthe￾sizing high-resolution images with few-step inference. arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.04378, 2023a.
Simian Luo, Yiqin Tan, Suraj Patil, Daniel Gu, Patrick von Platen, Apolinario Passos, Longbo ´
Huang, Jian Li, and Hang Zhao. Lcm-lora: A universal stable-diffusion acceleration module.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2311.05556, 2023b.
Dustin Podell, Zion English, Kyle Lacey, Andreas Blattmann, Tim Dockhorn, Jonas Muller, Joe ¨
Penna, and Robin Rombach. Sdxl: Improving latent diffusion models for high-resolution image
synthesis. In arXiv, 2023.
Robin Rombach, Andreas Blattmann, Dominik Lorenz, Patrick Esser, and Bjorn Ommer. High- ¨
resolution image synthesis with latent diffusion models. In CVPR, 2022.
Yang Song, Prafulla Dhariwal, Mark Chen, and Ilya Sutskever. Consistency models. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2303.01469, 2023.
Patrick von Platen, Suraj Patil, Anton Lozhkov, Pedro Cuenca, Nathan Lambert, Kashif Ra￾sul, Mishig Davaadorj, and Thomas Wolf. Diffusers: State-of-the-art diffusion mod￾els, 2023. URL https://huggingface.co/docs/diffusers/main/en/api/
pipelines/pixart#inference-with-under-8gb-gpu-vram?
Lvmin Zhang, Anyi Rao, and Maneesh Agrawala. Adding conditional control to text-to-image
diffusion models, 2023.
15